The required synthesizable top module is adaptive_aero_control_top. Do not substitute a status, telemetry, register-bank, or leaf module as the design top. The top must implement the selected Physical AI application contract, firmware-mediated command acceptance, validation, safety, timeout, fallback, and bounded actuator-command behavior.

SOFT-CPU MODEL TRANSPORT CONTRACT: external model/reference execution is firmware-mediated through the declared CSR/MMIO command and status registers. Do not invent a hardware streaming transport at the top level when the application contract assigns command acceptance to firmware.

FIRMWARE CONTROL-PLANE CONTRACT (mandatory): this product journey requests generated firmware. The synthesizable top must expose a real firmware-visible CSR/MMIO interface with address, write-data, read-data, transaction-valid/write-enable, and response/ready semantics. DIGITAL_SPEC_JSON.register_contract must describe the implemented registers and fields. Every declared register must be reachable through RTL decode; do not label inaccessible internal state as software-visible. The streaming transport may coexist with, but cannot replace, this interface.

SOFT CPU INTEGRATION CONTRACT: preserve the resolved CPU contract in generated architecture, firmware, and handoff metadata: {"abi": "ilp32", "bus": "wishbone", "clock_mhz": 50.0, "compiler_arch": "rv32imc", "compiler_features": [], "core": "picorv32", "core_label": "PicoRV32", "custom_target_json": null, "data_memory_kib": 16, "debug": false, "enabled": true, "estimated_reservation": {"basis": "supabase_governed_reference_estimate", "block_ram_blocks": 12, "logic_cells": 3000, "must_be_replaced_by_complete_system_synthesis": true}, "instruction_memory_kib": 32, "interrupts": true, "isa": "rv32imc", "license": "ISC", "policy_schema": "chiploop.application_intelligence.processor_ip_policy.v2", "profile": "balanced", "schema": "chiploop.fpga.soft_cpu.v1", "selection_mode": "automatic", "target_abi": "ilp32", "target_triple": "riscv32imc-unknown-none-elf", "uart": true}. The application RTL must expose the selected bus and MMIO interface. Do not claim the CPU is instantiated or board-ready until its RTL, memory/interconnect, and application RTL are synthesized and routed together.
Top-level module: adaptive_aero_control_top. Implement a synthesizable FPGA digital IP block for intelligent active aerodynamics control. The module shall integrate a PicoRV32 soft CPU subsystem on Wishbone, a compact CSR block, bounded valid/ready streaming adapters, freshness checking, timeout logic, actuator clamping, safe fallback selection, and fault reporting. The DoMINO surrogate itself is not part of RTL; all surrogate inference remains external software/GPU. The RTL shall only transport requests and responses, validate them, and convert validated control decisions into actuator commands.

Clock/reset: single synchronous clock domain is acceptable for the prototype. Provide clk and active-low rst_n. All state shall reset to a safe fallback condition. On reset, actuator outputs shall assert safe_fallback and remain inhibited until a fresh, valid command is received and the watchdog is clear.

CPU subsystem: instantiate a PicoRV32 core configured for rv32imc and Wishbone. The CPU shall access a CSR window containing mode control, watchdog timeout configuration, sequence counters, freshness threshold, actuator limit registers, rate limit registers, fault status, and command status. Optional UART diagnostics may be included for software bring-up. Interrupt output shall be provided for response-ready, fault, and timeout events.

External model I/O: provide one bounded request stream and one bounded response stream using valid/ready handshake. Stream width shall be no wider than 128 bits. Define packet fields in firmware/CSR documentation and decode them in RTL using fixed slices. The request packet shall carry at minimum: request_validity tag, sequence_id, operating-point data, geometry reference tag or geometry hash pointer, and a command class identifier. The response packet shall carry at minimum: sequence_id, response_validity tag, freshness stamp, commanded aerodynamic surface targets, and status bits. Do not expose vehicle geometry as a top-level array or any surrogate tensor payload at top level.

Validation rules: accept a response only when (a) the packet status indicates valid, (b) sequence_id matches the outstanding request or meets monotonic acceptance policy, (c) packet age is within timeout threshold, (d) operating-point metadata is in the configured 20-55 m/s envelope, and (e) any integrity/status bits are clear. Any violation shall set a fault bit, inhibit actuator update, and select safe fallback. Reject stale model commands explicitly, as required.

Timeout handling: implement a programmable watchdog counter started on each request issuance. If a matching response does not arrive before timeout, assert timeout_fault, mark the response stale, and force safe fallback. Timeout and stale-data conditions shall be latched until firmware clears them through CSR write, provided the input condition is no longer present.

Actuator control: implement a command_clamper that limits each actuator command to configured minimum and maximum values. Include optional rate-of-change limiting if space permits; if rate limiting is implemented, it shall be programmable via CSR and enforced before output. The output stage shall only update when a command is validated and not faulted. In all other cases it shall hold safe fallback or the last explicitly safe command according to firmware policy.

Safe fallback: define a deterministic fallback command in CSR/registers, for example a conservative aero state with surfaces set to a specified safe position. The fallback shall be used during reset, timeout, stale-data rejection, invalid packet rejection, or host/software unavailability. The fallback path shall be combinationally and sequentially safe, with no dependency on unvalidated stream contents.

Storage and buffering: for the FPGA prototype, any internal buffering may use FPGA BRAM or distributed RAM inferred by standard FPGA tooling. Do not instantiate Sky130 macros in FPGA synthesis. Do not use register arrays as bulk payload storage for large packets; keep buffering bounded and minimal. A small one-entry or two-entry skid buffer is acceptable for stream decoupling.

Bus/register map: use a compact address/data window no wider than 64 bits effective register access. Keep the design implementation-friendly; the top level shall not expose large pin counts or geometry data. Provide read-only status registers for last_response_sequence, last_response_age, fault summary, and health summary, and writeable control registers for timeout, limits, enable, and fallback command.

Synthesis constraints: target FPGA implementation with no dependence on ASIC hard macros. Ensure all arithmetic is synthesizable and fixed-point or integer only. No floating-point datapath is required in RTL. Any conversion from model outputs to actuator units shall be integer fixed-point and documented for firmware/software alignment.

Safety behavior: if the CPU is halted, not yet initialized, or the external runtime is absent, the RTL shall remain in safe fallback and shall not emit active actuator commands. If a new request is issued while a previous request is outstanding, policy shall either stall or overwrite based on a CSR-configured mode, but shall never bypass freshness checks. Latching of fault bits and interrupt generation shall be deterministic and reviewable in RTL.

Top-level port discipline: keep scalar-equivalent I/O count below 256. Use the Wishbone bus, one request stream, one response stream, compact actuator output, interrupts, and UART only. No tensors, no flow fields, no geometry arrays, no wide flattened payload buses beyond 128 bits.

Future ASIC note: if later retargeting to Sky130 ASIC, bulk payload storage may only be implemented after verifying complete collateral for sky130_sram_1kbyte_1rw1r_32x256_8, including behavioral Verilog, Liberty, LEF, GDS, and SPICE. If collateral is incomplete, stop at the memory-collateral gate and do not replace storage with standard-cell register arrays.
FPGA MEMORY CONTRACT (mandatory): describe bulk payload/history/FIFO storage through a technology-neutral memory wrapper that the FPGA flow can map to native block RAM; do not flatten it into registers.