The required synthesizable top module is adaptive_aero_control_top. Do not substitute a status, telemetry, register-bank, or leaf module as the design top. The top must implement the selected Physical AI application contract, external model request/response transport, validation, safety, timeout, fallback, and bounded actuator-command behavior.

EXTERNAL MODEL TRANSPORT DIRECTION CONTRACT (mandatory; this takes precedence over ambiguous ingress/egress wording in upstream prose): the RTL emits model-request valid/data as outputs and receives model-request ready as an input. The RTL receives model-response valid/data as inputs and emits model-response ready as an output. Apply this rule by data flow even when application-specific ports use cmd_*, req_*, rsp_*, or response_* names. A top-level output must have a real RTL driver; never connect a required top-level output only to a child input.

FIRMWARE CONTROL-PLANE CONTRACT (mandatory): this product journey requests generated firmware. The synthesizable top must expose a real firmware-visible CSR/MMIO interface with address, write-data, read-data, transaction-valid/write-enable, and response/ready semantics. DIGITAL_SPEC_JSON.register_contract must describe the implemented registers and fields. Every declared register must be reachable through RTL decode; do not label inaccessible internal state as software-visible. The streaming transport may coexist with, but cannot replace, this interface.

SOFT CPU INTEGRATION CONTRACT: preserve the resolved CPU contract in generated architecture, firmware, and handoff metadata: {"abi": "ilp32", "bus": "wishbone", "clock_mhz": 50.0, "compiler_arch": "rv32imc", "core": "picorv32", "core_label": "PicoRV32", "data_memory_kib": 16, "debug": false, "enabled": true, "estimated_reservation": {"basis": "supabase_governed_reference_estimate", "block_ram_blocks": 12, "logic_cells": 3000, "must_be_replaced_by_complete_system_synthesis": true}, "instruction_memory_kib": 32, "interrupts": true, "isa": "rv32imc", "license": "ISC", "policy_schema": "chiploop.application_intelligence.processor_ip_policy.v2", "profile": "balanced", "schema": "chiploop.fpga.soft_cpu.v1", "selection_mode": "automatic", "target_triple": "rv32imc-unknown-none-elf", "uart": true}. The application RTL must expose the selected bus and MMIO interface. Do not claim the CPU is instantiated or board-ready until its RTL, memory/interconnect, and application RTL are synthesized and routed together.
Design a synthesizable FPGA RTL top level named adaptive_aero_control_top. The design shall integrate a PicoRV32 RV32IMC soft CPU subsystem, Wishbone interconnect, a compact memory-mapped control/status window, timer/watchdog, safety supervisor, and actuator command output logic. The RTL shall not implement the NVIDIA DoMINO surrogate, vehicle CFD, mesh processing, or any tensor/flow-field computation. Instead, the RTL shall provide bounded transport and safety supervision for software-executed model inference.

Top-level ports shall be compact and implementation-friendly. Use only scalar clock/reset, a small Wishbone-style CPU bus if exposed at top level, a narrow register window interface, optional UART TX/RX, and compact actuator/status outputs. Do not expose vehicle_geometry, flow_conditions, flow_field, surface_pressure grids, or large payload arrays as top-level pins. Do not exceed 128 bits on any streaming-style payload bus. Prefer a register-memory window no wider than 64 bits if a dedicated streaming path is not used.

The design shall include the following functional RTL blocks:
1) CPU subsystem: instantiate or integrate PicoRV32 as the control processor, clocked at the implementation target frequency. The CPU firmware owns geometry packaging, model request initiation, response polling, actuator policy decisions, logging, and fallback state management. The CPU subsystem shall use the Wishbone bus for register access.
2) Model transport bridge: implement a register-window-based request/response protocol with req_valid/req_ready and resp_valid/resp_ready semantics. The bridge shall accept bounded packets describing a request type, sequence ID, length, and 32-bit data words. The bridge shall expose only a finite number of packet registers and a small internal holding buffer. The bridge shall generate busy, done, and error conditions.
3) Stale-data monitor: track the most recent accepted request sequence number, response sequence number, and deadline timer. A response is valid only if its sequence matches the active request and the response age is below a programmable timeout threshold. Any late, duplicated, or out-of-order response shall be rejected and marked stale.
4) Watchdog and timeout control: implement a free-running timer and a per-request deadline counter. If the model response does not arrive before the configured deadline, assert timeout, clear busy, and force safe fallback.
5) Actuator command clamp: implement fixed-point clamping logic for commanded aerodynamic actuator positions/angles. The clamp shall enforce programmable min and max limits, set a clamped flag when limits are hit, and block unsafe values from reaching the actuator output.
6) Safe fallback controller: provide a deterministic conservative actuator command used on reset, timeout, stale response, protocol error, invalid data, or firmware-requested hold. The fallback command shall be immediately selectable and shall dominate all non-safe outputs.
7) Status and interrupt logic: provide compact status flags for busy, timeout, stale, error, and safe_fallback_active. If interrupts are used, generate a level or pulse interrupt to the CPU when a response completes or a fault occurs.

Control register map requirements: use a small addressable register window with 32-bit data registers. Include registers for request control, request sequence, request length, request data FIFO staging or data staging, response status, timeout threshold, actuator min/max clamp values, fallback command, current command, and sticky fault status. Registers shall support byte enables where applicable. Do not infer large payload storage with flip-flops; if buffering is needed, keep it minimal and bounded, with depth sufficient only for control-plane staging. Since the implementation target is FPGA, use the platform BRAM abstraction for any required buffering inside the CPU subsystem or transport bridge, but do not instantiate any Sky130 macro.

Reset and safety behavior: on reset, clear busy, clear pending request state, invalidate all in-flight sequences, and drive actuator output to the safe fallback command. On any bus fault, invalid response, or timeout, transition to safe fallback and latch a diagnostic bit until firmware clears it. Ensure new requests are blocked while a previous request is active unless the design explicitly supports a queue depth of one.

Timing and throughput: the design shall support a soft real-time supervisory loop at the configured CPU clock. The bridge shall accept a request only when not busy, and it shall provide deterministic ready/valid handshake behavior. Latency to safe fallback shall be bounded by one control cycle plus combinational clamp logic. The implementation shall be safe for 20-55 m/s operation and shall not make any physics prediction itself. Firmware may use the CPU-reference analytical drag reference when the model service is unavailable, but RTL shall only supervise and transmit the control data.

Implementation constraints: FPGA-only path; do not use Sky130 SRAM macros, ASIC-only hard macros, inferred ASIC memories, or any storage structure incompatible with FPGA synthesis. Keep total top-level scalar-equivalent I/O count below 256. Use synthesizable Verilog/SystemVerilog constructs only. Any optional UART shall be nonintrusive and shall not affect safety behavior. The design shall be suitable for Arch2RTL generation and downstream FPGA synthesis.
FPGA MEMORY CONTRACT (mandatory): describe bulk payload/history/FIFO storage through a technology-neutral memory wrapper that the FPGA flow can map to native block RAM; do not flatten it into registers.